<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<title>I think - Interactive DHTML art-demos</title>
<style type="text/css">
	html {
		overflow: hidden;
	}
	body {
		margin: 0px;
		padding: 0px;
		background: #000;
		position: absolute;
		width: 100%;
		height: 100%;
		cursor: crosshair;
	}
	#canvas {
		position:absolute;
		left: 0%;
		top: 0%;
		width: 100%;
		height: 100%;
		background: #222;
		overflow: hidden;
	}
	#canvas span {
		position: absolute;
		color: #FFF;
		font-family: arial, helvetica, verdana, sans-serif;
		white-space: nowrap;
		font-size: 0.8em;
	}
	#menu {
		display: none;
	}
</style>
	<script src="../util.js"></script>
	<script src="../kernel.js"></script>
	<script src="visdebug.js"></script>
	<script type="text/javascript" src="library/svgvml.js"></script>
	<script type="text/javascript" src="library/nodemotion.js"></script>
	<script type="text/javascript">
	</script>

</head>

<body onload="load(makeXML())">

<div id="canvas"></div>

<div id="menu" style="color:#f00">I think
	<div style="color:#ff0">I do
		<div>this
			<a>all the time pretty much.</a>
			<a>because is keeps me interested.</a>
			<a>for a good reason.</a>
		</div>
		<div>agree
			<a>with your comment.</a>
			<a>on the whole.</a>
			<div>that something
				<a>needs to be done.</a>
				<a>is off.</a>
				<a>should have been noticed.</a>
			</div>
		</div>
		<div>not
			<div>know
				<div>what I am exactly
					<a>going to achieve.</a>
					<a>looking for.</a>
					<a>doing wrong with it.</a>
				</div>
				<a>what they have said.</a>
				<a>more than half of the whole system.</a>
			</div>
			<a>love you anymore.</a>
			<div>have to
				<a>say anything more.</a>
				<a>go in details.</a>
				<a>understand it.</a>
			</div>
			<a>get your answer.</a>
		</div>
	</div>
	<div style="color:#f80">of You
		<a>everytime</a>
		<div>as
			<a>my Guardian Angel.</a>
			<a>a brother.</a>
			<div>a source for
				<a>inspiration.</a>
				<a>support.</a>
				<a>guidance.</a>
			</div>
		</div>
		<div>even when
			<a>I am trying not to.</a>
			<a>I sleep.</a>
			<a>I'm with you.</a>
		</div>
		<a>and it's gone!</a>
	</div>
	<div style="color:#0f0">they like
		<a>me best.</a>
		<a>the music too.</a>
		<a>to be intrigued.</a>
		<div>to be first,
			<div>but they're so young
				<div>they don't
					<div>realize
						<div>they weren't
							<div>the first.</div>
						</div>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
		</div>
	</div>
</div>

</body>
</html>